Adds a plugin publishing best practices guide. (#1158)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/publish-a-plugin/publishing-best-practices.md

---
id: publishing-best-practices
title: Publishing best practices
sidebar_position: 0
description: Best practices for publishing your plugin
keywords:
  - grafana
  - plugins
  - plugin
  - publish
  - best practices
---

# Publishing best practices

When publishing a Grafana plugin, adhering to best practices ensures not only a smooth submission and review process but also a higher quality experience for users. By following established guidelines, you improve the plugin’s performance, security, and discoverability within the Grafana ecosystem, ensuring that your plugin stands out as a shining example of what a Grafana plugin can be.

This document outlines the essential best practices for you to follow before publishing your Grafana plugin. These recommendations will help you avoid common pitfalls, streamline the review process, and create a plugin that integrates seamlessly into users' workflows while maintaining the high standards expected in the Grafana ecosystem. Whether you’re fine-tuning your plugin’s functionality or preparing your documentation, following these practices will ensure that your plugin is optimized for success from the start.

> 

Reviewer: It's maybe here that we could add smth like:

By this stage we are assuming you have already `[created](/<add-link-to-get-started)` your initial version of a plugin, that you have reviewed the plugin `[best practices](<link-to /get-started/best-practices>)`, and the guidance on `[signature levels](<link-to /publish-a-plugin/sign-a-plugin#public-or-private-plugins>)`.

Please edit the above, its just a rushed illustrative note 😄

> ## Populating your plugin's metadata

Author: Agreed, I didn't include those yet as I wasn't sure what the status was of the updated plugin details page.

> ## Populating your plugin's metadata

Reviewer: ^ given the changes to the plugin details page I'm hoping custom links become less important.

Metadata plays a crucial role in making your Grafana plugin discoverable and user-friendly. Properly structuring the [metadata in your `plugin.json` file](../reference/metadata.md) not only helps users find your plugin in [Grafana’s plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/) but also provides essential details about the plugin’s functionality and compatibility.

Here’s a breakdown of the key components to focus on:

**Plugin name (`name`)**

The name of your plugin should be clear, concise, and descriptive. It is the first point of interaction for potential users, so avoid overly generic or cryptic names. Aim for a name that reflects the plugin’s primary functionality, making it easy to understand its purpose at a glance.

**Description (`description`)**

> The description field should succinctly summarize what your plugin does and why users should install it. Limit the description to two sentences, highlighting the core functionality and use cases. A well-written description not only informs users but also contributes to better search results in the catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The description field should succinctly summarize what your plugin does and why users should install it. Limit the description to two sentences, highlighting the core functionality and use cases. A well-written description not only informs users, but also contributes to better search results in the catalog.
```

**Keywords (`keywords`)**

Keywords improve the searchability of your plugin within Grafana’s catalog. Choose terms that accurately describe your plugin’s functionality and data types it supports (e.g., "JSON", "SQL", "visualization"). However, avoid keyword stuffing; irrelevant keywords will be flagged during the review process, potentially delaying publication.

**Grafana version compatibility (`grafanaDependency`)**

> Ensure your plugin specifies the minimum Grafana version it is compatible with. This guarantees that users running different versions of Grafana know whether your plugin will work for them. Regularly update this field as new versions of Grafana are released, and [run end-to-end tests](../e2e-test-a-plugin/introduction.md) to confirm compatibility with those releases.

Reviewer: > Regularly update this field as new versions of Grafana are released

I don't think we want to encourage this as it implies setting a maximum value you support. I'd remove.

**Other Grafana plugin dependencies (`plugins`)**

> If your plugin relies on any other published Grafana plugins in order to function correctly, be sure to add them to this array field. Plugins listed as dependencies here will be automatically installed by Grafana when a user installs your plugin.

Reviewer 2: Important to mention that this applies only to external plugins, do not reference "core" plugins here as it will have no effect.

Author: Good point, I'll update this.

> If your plugin relies on any other external Grafana plugins (i.e. non-core plugins) in order to function correctly, be sure to add them to this array field. Plugins listed as dependencies here will be automatically installed by Grafana when a user installs your plugin.

Reviewer: This feels odd to highlight as it both uncommon and brittle

Author: Cool, will remove.

## Creating a comprehensive README

Your plugin's README file serves as both a first impression and a detailed guide for your users. Think of it as a combination of a storefront advertisement and an instruction manual - showing what your plugin can do, how to install it, and how users can make the most of it within their Grafana instances.

To assist developers in crafting a high-quality README, we provide a [README template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/plugin-tools/main/packages/create-plugin/templates/common/src/README.md) as part of the plugin structure generated by the `create-plugin` tool. This template ensures you cover the essential components while giving you flexibility to add more specific details.

Beyond a basic overview of your plugin, its use cases, and requirements, there are additional elements you should consider including to help users understand the value and functionality of your plugin:

> - **Screenshots or screen captures:** Visual aids often communicate better than text alone. Including screenshots or even video demonstrations allows users to quickly grasp the plugin’s capabilities and setup process, giving them confidence to use it effectively.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/1158/files#r1787426631

Screenshots in readme are great + link to screenshots as we display them on the plugin details page separately from readme too.

Author: @sympatheticmoose are the `plugin.json` field names set in stone yet for the extra metadata you're planning to extract for the plugin details page?

Reviewer: no - @Ukochka is still working on how we'd actually add these to the plugin.json schema

**Key points:**

- **Test compatibility across versions:** Ensure your plugin works seamlessly with various versions of Grafana by setting up E2E tests targeting multiple releases.
- **Automate testing:** Integrate E2E testing into your continuous integration (CI) pipeline to catch issues early and frequently, reducing potential problems during review.

For a comprehensive guide on setting up E2E tests, see our [E2E test a plugin](../e2e-test-a-plugin/introduction.md) section.

## Validate your plugin

Before submitting your plugin for review, you should validate your plugin to ensure that it meets Grafana's standards for functionality, security, and structure. The easiest way to do this is by using the Plugin Validator tool. This tool checks for potential issues that could prevent your plugin from being accepted, such as security vulnerabilities or structural problems.

**Key points:**

> - **Run locally or in CI:** You can run the validator locally or integrate it into your CI workflow to automate the validation process.

Reviewer: Optional to mention - but it's already in the default workflow for release

- **Validation reports:** The tool generates a report, highlighting any errors or warnings that need to be addressed before submission.

For more information on using the validator, refer to the [Plugin Validator documentation](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-validator).

## Provide a provisioned test environment

> Provisioning a test environment for your plugin can significantly reduce the review time and make it easier for others to test and contribute to your plugin. A provisioned environment includes a pre-configured Grafana instance with sample dashboards and data sources that demonstrate your plugin's functionality.

Reviewer 2: This can be come a separate section on it's own in the future. Just a note for us - something to expand on.

Author: Absolutely agree, definitely worth creating a new docs page dedicated to guiding people through setting up a provisioned environment in the future.

Reviewer: /publish-a-plugin/provide-test-environment ? its already there... what are you suggesting is missing?

## Populating your plugin's metadata

Metadata plays a crucial role in making your Grafana plugin discoverable and user-friendly. Properly structuring the [metadata in your `plugin.json` file](../reference/metadata.md) not only helps users find your plugin in [Grafana’s plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/) but also provides essential details about the plugin’s functionality and compatibility.

Here’s a breakdown of the key components to focus on:

**[Plugin name](../reference/plugin-json#properties)**

`name`

The name of your plugin should be clear, concise, and descriptive. It is the first point of interaction for potential users, so avoid overly generic or cryptic names. Aim for a name that reflects the plugin’s primary functionality, making it easy to understand its purpose at a glance.

**[Description](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.description`

> The description field should succinctly summarize what your plugin does and why users should install it. Limit the description to two sentences, highlighting the core functionality and use cases. A well-written description not only informs users, but also contributes to better search results in the catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
The description field should succinctly summarize what your this is an example does and why users should install it. Limit the description to two sentences, highlighting the core functionality and use cases. A well-written description not only informs users, but also contributes to better search results in the catalog.
```

**[Keywords](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.keywords`

> Keywords improve the searchability of your plugin within Grafana’s catalog. Choose terms that accurately describe your plugin’s functionality and data types it supports (e.g., "JSON", "SQL", "visualization"). However, avoid keyword stuffing; irrelevant keywords will be flagged during the review process, potentially delaying publication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, avoid keyword stuffing; irrelevant keywords will be flagged during the review process, potentially delaying publication.
```

Better to make a NOTE of it so that i becomes more visible here

**[Logos](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.logos`

Adding logos improves the overall look and feel of your plugin within the plugin catalog. Providing a logo adds legitimacy and professionalism to your plugin.

**[Screenshots](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.screenshots`

The screenshots field should be used to provide an array of screenshot images that will be displayed within the plugin catalog. This is great for providing users with a visual representation of your plugin and can help them establish whether or not this plugin solves their problem before they even install it. Be sure to provide screenshots of your plugin in action, highlighting the standout features.

**[Grafana version compatibility](../reference/plugin-json#dependencies)**

`dependencies.grafanaDependency`

> Ensure your plugin specifies the minimum Grafana version it is compatible with. This guarantees that users running different versions of Grafana know whether your plugin will work for them. Be sure to [run end-to-end tests](../e2e-test-a-plugin/introduction.md) to confirm compatibility with releases you support.

Author: I don't think this is something which exists. The Grafana Plugin SDK is designed to be backwards compatible; but there is no version matrix available unfortunately. http://localhost:3000/developers/plugin-tools/key-concepts/backend-plugins/plugin-protocol#versioning

> Grafana will release new major versions of the plugin protocol alongside new major Grafana releases. When this happens, we'll support both the old and the new plugin protocol for some time to make sure existing backend plugins continue to work.

## Creating a comprehensive README

> Your plugin's README file serves as both a first impression and a detailed guide for your users. Think of it as a combination of a storefront advertisement and an instruction manual - showing what your plugin can do, how to install it, and how users can make the most of it within their Grafana instances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your plugin's `README.md` file serves as both a first impression and a detailed guide for your users. Think of it as a combination of a storefront advertisement and an instruction manual - showing what your plugin can do, how to install it, and how users can make the most of it within their Grafana instances.
```

> To assist developers in crafting a high-quality README, we provide a [README template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/plugin-tools/main/packages/create-plugin/templates/common/src/README.md) as part of the plugin structure generated by the `create-plugin` tool. This template ensures you cover the essential components while giving you flexibility to add more specific details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To assist developers in crafting a high-quality `README.md`, we provide a [README template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/plugin-tools/main/packages/create-plugin/templates/common/src/README.md) as part of the plugin structure generated by the `create-plugin` tool. This template ensures you cover the essential components while giving you flexibility to add more specific details.
```

Beyond a basic overview of your plugin, its use cases, and requirements, there are additional elements you should consider including to help users understand the value and functionality of your plugin:

> - **Screenshots or screen captures:** Visual aids often communicate better than text alone. Including screenshots or even video demonstrations allows users to quickly grasp the plugin’s capabilities and setup process, giving them confidence to use it effectively.

Reviewer 3: Might be good to mention the:

- screenshot size, resolution
- file types such as .png, .jpeg, .gif (the ones we do support)
- max file size
- video files (or a valid link to it)

Author: Cool I'll add a note about suitable resolution and file type. I'm not sure we have a specific max file size or preferred resolution though.

- **Dynamic badges:** Badges provide quick, at-a-glance information about your plugin, such as the latest release version or whether it has passed security and code checks. Tools like [shields.io](https://shields.io/) can be used with the Grafana.com API to automatically update these badges whenever you publish a new version, adding transparency and trustworthiness to your plugin.

> - **Contribution guidance:** Maintaining a plugin can be demanding, especially for solo developers. Clearly outlining how users can provide feedback, report bugs, or contribute code improvements helps foster community involvement, making it easier to maintain and improve your plugin over time.

Reviewer 3: Can we use an alternative word for "solo" developers?

Author: Yep, I'll change it to "individual".

> This structure ensures that your README is both informative and engaging, providing users with everything they need to confidently use and contribute to your plugin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This structure ensures that your `README.md` is both informative and engaging, providing users with everything they need to confidently use and contribute to your plugin.
```

Author: See above.

## End-to-end testing

> End-to-end (E2E) testing ensures that your Grafana plugin functions correctly across various environments and Grafana versions. It replicates real-world usage by testing the plugin in an environment similar to the end-user's setup. Implementing E2E tests helps catch issues before submission, saving time during the review process and ensuring a smoother user experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
End-to-end (E2E) testing ensures that your Grafana plugin works correctly across various environments and supported Grafana versions. It replicates real-world usage by testing the plugin in an environment similar to the end-user's setup. Implementing E2E tests helps catch issues before submission, saving time during the review process and ensuring a smoother user experience.
```

**Key points:**

> - **Test compatibility across versions:** Ensure your plugin works seamlessly with various versions of Grafana by setting up E2E tests targeting multiple releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Test compatibility across versions:** Ensure your plugin works seamlessly with supported versions of Grafana available in various flavors y setting up E2E tests targeting multiple releases.
```

Author: Not sure what is meant here by "available in various flavors"?

Reviewer 3: flavors here meant to Grafana OSS, Enterprise, Cloud. 

As not every plugin can work on each flavor due to signature so that is why I mentioned it here but it is also optional as not to add too much info here if you feel it can lead to confusion

> - **Automate testing:** Integrate E2E testing into your continuous integration (CI) pipeline to catch issues early and frequently, reducing potential problems during review.

Reviewer 3: Might be good to make this as an INFO

Author: I'm not sure I would put this in an INFO block, it's the core part of the section and not an addendum/callout.

- **Validation reports:** The tool generates a report, highlighting any errors or warnings that need to be addressed before submission.

For more information on using the validator, refer to the [Plugin Validator documentation](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-validator).

## Provide a provisioned test environment

Provisioning a test environment for your plugin can significantly reduce the review time and make it easier for others to test and contribute to your plugin. A provisioned environment includes a pre-configured Grafana instance with sample dashboards and data sources that demonstrate your plugin's functionality.

**Key points:**

- **Why provisioning matters:** It ensures that both reviewers and contributors can quickly verify your plugin's behaviour without manual setup, speeding up the review and collaboration process.
- **Automated setup:** You can provision test environments using Docker to create an out-of-the-box experience that replicates a typical Grafana setup.

> To learn more about setting up provisioned environments, check out our [provisioning guide](../publish-a-plugin/provide-test-environment.md).

Reviewer 3: make it an INFO NOTE

Author: See above. Info and Note blocks are really to be reserved for callouts or addendums, and not key information.

## Automating releases with GitHub Actions

To streamline your plugin development workflow, it's a best practice to automate releases using GitHub Actions. Automating this process helps ensure that your plugin is built, signed, and packaged correctly on each release, reducing human error and expediting the publishing process.

**Key points:**

- **Continuous integration (CI):** Use GitHub Actions to automatically build and test your plugin on every commit or pull request, catching issues early.
- **Release workflow:** Automate the signing and packaging of your plugin when you're ready to publish, ensuring it meets the necessary criteria for submission to the Grafana plugin catalog.

For detailed setup instructions, refer to our [Automate packaging and signing with GitHub](../publish-a-plugin/build-automation.md) guide.

## Next steps

> By following these best practices - such as carefully populating metadata, creating a comprehensive README, validating your plugin, provisioning test environments, and automating releases - you significantly increase the chances of a successful plugin submission. Each step is designed to ensure that your plugin not only passes our review process but also delivers an exceptional experience for users. Adopting these practices will streamline your workflow and help create plugins that stand out in the Grafana ecosystem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By following these best practices - such as carefully populating metadata, creating a comprehensive `README.md`, validating your plugin, provisioning test environments, and automating releases - you significantly increase the chances of a successful plugin submission. 

Each step is designed to ensure that your plugin not only passes our review process but also delivers an exceptional experience for users. Adopting these practices will streamline your workflow and help create plugins that stand out in the Grafana ecosystem.
```

> Once your ready for your plugin to be published, head on over to Grafana Cloud and follow our guide for [submitting your plugin for review](../publish-a-plugin/publish-or-update-a-plugin.md) - we look forward to seeing what you create!

Reviewer 3: Maybe good to provide a link to Grafana Cloud to create a new account.

Here’s a breakdown of the key components to focus on:

**[Plugin name](../reference/plugin-json#properties)**

`name`

The name of your plugin should be clear, concise, and descriptive. It is the first point of interaction for potential users, so avoid overly generic or cryptic names. Aim for a name that reflects the plugin’s primary functionality, making it easy to understand its purpose at a glance.

**[Description](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.description`

The description field should succinctly summarize what your plugin does and why users should install it. Limit the description to two sentences, highlighting the core functionality and use cases. A well-written description not only informs users, but also contributes to better search results in the catalog.

**[Keywords](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.keywords`

> Keywords improve the searchability of your plugin within Grafana’s catalog. Choose terms that accurately describe your plugin’s functionality and data types it supports (e.g., "JSON", "SQL", "visualization").

Reviewer: not sure - `and` would be invalid in the metadata itself 🤔 but this is nit picking so wouldn't stress too much

:::note

Avoid keyword stuffing; irrelevant keywords will be flagged during the review process, potentially delaying publication.

:::

**[Logos](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.logos`

Adding logos improves the overall look and feel of your plugin within the plugin catalog. Providing a logo adds legitimacy and professionalism to your plugin.

**[Screenshots](../reference/plugin-json#info)**

`info.screenshots`

> The screenshots field should be used to provide an array of screenshot images that will be displayed within the plugin catalog. This is great for providing users with a visual representation of your plugin and can help them establish whether or not this plugin solves their problem before they even install it. Be sure to provide screenshots of your plugin in action, highlighting the standout features.

Reviewer: FYI array is the accurate term here and this is also in the plugin metadata schema. If you wanted to combine this may be an alt
```suggestion
The screenshots field should be used to provide an array with one or more screenshot images that will be displayed within the plugin catalog. This is great for providing users with a visual representation of your plugin and can help them establish whether or not this plugin solves their problem before they even install it. Be sure to provide screenshots of your plugin in action, highlighting the standout features.
```

:::note

Ensure your screenshots are a suitable resolution and file type (e.g. png, jpeg, or gif).

:::

**[Grafana version compatibility](../reference/plugin-json#dependencies)**

`dependencies.grafanaDependency`

Ensure your plugin specifies the minimum Grafana version it is compatible with. This guarantees that users running different versions of Grafana know whether your plugin will work for them. Be sure to [run end-to-end tests](../e2e-test-a-plugin/introduction.md) to confirm compatibility with releases you support.

## Creating a comprehensive README

> Your plugin's README file serves as both a first impression and a detailed guide for your users. Think of it as a combination of a storefront advertisement and an instruction manual - showing what your plugin can do, how to install it, and how users can make the most of it within their Grafana instances.

Reviewer: @josmperez for my own education - why the whitespace should be removed?

Beyond a basic overview of your plugin, its use cases, and requirements, there are additional elements you should consider including to help users understand the value and functionality of your plugin:

- **Screenshots or screen captures:** Visual aids often communicate better than text alone. Including screenshots or even video demonstrations allows users to quickly grasp the plugin’s capabilities and setup process, giving them confidence to use it effectively.
- **Dynamic badges:** Badges provide quick, at-a-glance information about your plugin, such as the latest release version or whether it has passed security and code checks. Tools like [shields.io](https://shields.io/) can be used with the Grafana.com API to automatically update these badges whenever you publish a new version, adding transparency and trustworthiness to your plugin.

> - **Contribution guidance:** Maintaining a plugin can be demanding, especially for individual developers. Clearly outlining how users can provide feedback, report bugs, or contribute code improvements helps foster community involvement, making it easier to maintain and improve your plugin over time.

Reviewer 4: We should make sure that people don't confuse `contribute code improvements` with instructions on how to clone, build and develop the plugin. We reject submissions of readme files that contain "development slang".

Author: @academo any particular reason we reject plugin submissions for that reason? We've seen recently a case where a maintainer of a large plugin wanted to hand over the reigns but did not have any contributors. Putting contribution information in a README is fairly common practice. If not in the README, where should plugin developers put this information?

Reviewer: It's mainly as the plugin readme is primarily there for users and developers who may contribute are a small % of that group. Agree that advertising how to contribute is important, but it should be a signpost in the readme with details in a contributing.md as you say.

This structure ensures that your README is both informative and engaging, providing users with everything they need to confidently use and contribute to your plugin.

## End-to-end testing

End-to-end (E2E) testing ensures that your Grafana plugin works correctly across various environments and supported Grafana versions. It replicates real-world usage by testing the plugin in an environment similar to the end-user's setup. Implementing E2E tests helps catch issues before submission, saving time during the review process and ensuring a smoother user experience.

**Key points:**

- **Test compatibility across versions:** Ensure your plugin works seamlessly with various versions of Grafana by setting up E2E tests targeting multiple releases.
- **Automate testing:** Integrate E2E testing into your continuous integration (CI) pipeline to catch issues early and frequently, reducing potential problems during review.

For a comprehensive guide on setting up E2E tests, see our [E2E test a plugin](../e2e-test-a-plugin/introduction.md) section.

## Validate your plugin

> Before submitting your plugin for review, you should validate your plugin to ensure that it meets Grafana's standards for functionality, security, and structure. The easiest way to do this is by using the Plugin Validator tool. This tool checks for potential issues that could prevent your plugin from being accepted, such as security vulnerabilities or structural problems.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Before submitting your plugin for review, validate your plugin to ensure that it meets Grafana's standards for functionality, security, and structure. The easiest way to do this is with Plugin Validator. This tool checks for potential issues that could prevent your plugin from being accepted, such as security vulnerabilities or structural problems.
```

Reviewer: agree with the above just to add `the` after with

**Key points:**

> - **Run locally or in CI:** You can run the validator locally or integrate it into your CI workflow to automate the validation process. Note, the validator runs automatically during the default release workflow.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Run locally or in continuous integration:** Run the validator locally or integrate it into your CI workflow to automate the validation process. Note that the validator runs automatically during the default release workflow.
```

Reviewer: The header and the first sentence are almost identical. Feels like this could be reworked

Provisioning a test environment for your plugin can significantly reduce the review time and make it easier for others to test and contribute to your plugin. A provisioned environment includes a pre-configured Grafana instance with sample dashboards and data sources that demonstrate your plugin's functionality.

**Key points:**

- **Why provisioning matters:** It ensures that both reviewers and contributors can quickly verify your plugin's behaviour without manual setup, speeding up the review and collaboration process.
- **Automated setup:** You can provision test environments using Docker to create an out-of-the-box experience that replicates a typical Grafana setup.

To learn more about setting up provisioned environments, check out our [provisioning guide](../publish-a-plugin/provide-test-environment.md).

## Automating releases with GitHub Actions

To streamline your plugin development workflow, it's a best practice to automate releases using GitHub Actions. Automating this process helps ensure that your plugin is built, signed, and packaged correctly on each release, reducing human error and expediting the publishing process.

**Key points:**

> - **Continuous integration (CI):** Use GitHub Actions to automatically build and test your plugin on every commit or pull request, catching issues early.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Continuous integration:** Use GitHub Actions to automatically build and test your plugin on every commit or pull request, catching issues early.
```

Reviewer: this feels strange to me personally, CI is far more commonly referenced than spelling it out

- **Release workflow:** Automate the signing and packaging of your plugin when you're ready to publish, ensuring it meets the necessary criteria for submission to the Grafana plugin catalog.

For detailed setup instructions, refer to our [Automate packaging and signing with GitHub](../publish-a-plugin/build-automation.md) guide.

## Next steps

> By following these best practices - such as carefully populating metadata, creating a comprehensive README, validating your plugin, provisioning test environments, and automating releases - you significantly increase the chances of a successful plugin submission.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Follow these best practices—carefully populating metadata, creating a comprehensive README, validating your plugin, provisioning test environments, automating releases, and so on—to significantly improve the chances of a successful plugin submission.
```

Reviewer: An instruction to follow the best practices in this document feels an odd "next step"

Author: Agree, this paragraph was aiming to be a wrap up and next steps assuming you just did all the things in this guide, but this suggestion turns it into a "now do this" instead. I'll leave as is for now and we can update later if it feels odds to users.

Each of these best practices are designed to ensure that your plugin not only passes our review process but also delivers an exceptional experience for users. Adopting these practices will streamline your workflow and help create plugins that stand out in the Grafana ecosystem.

> Once your ready for your plugin to be published, head on over to [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/get/) and follow our guide for [submitting your plugin for review](../publish-a-plugin/publish-or-update-a-plugin.md) - we look forward to seeing what you create!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once you're ready for your plugin to be published, head on over to [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/get/) and follow our guide for [submitting your plugin for review](../publish-a-plugin/publish-or-update-a-plugin.md). We look forward to seeing what you create!
```

Reviewer: Should we link to Grafana Cloud at all? The publishing guide will direct them there when appropriate?
